Freshness Pass Cpp Editing Page (#6943)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/cpp/cpp-ide.md

## Editing Set Up

To provide the best editing experience, the C++ extension needs to know where it can find each header file referenced in your code. By default, the extension searches the current source directory, its subdirectories, and some platform-specific locations. If a referenced header file can't be found, a red squiggle is displayed underneath the #include directive.

To specify additional include directories, select an #include that has no reference. Next, select the light bulb that appears and choose `Edit "includePath" setting`, which opens the C/C++ Extension's Configurations interface. Under the Include Path section, you can specify the paths for any additional include directories.

![Process of adding a new header to the include path](images\intellisense\AddingIncludePathToConfig.gif)

## List members

When you type a member access symbol (`.` or `->`) the editor displays a list of members. As you type more letters, the list is filtered in real time:

![List members](images/cpp/list-members-cpp.png)

> ### Code formatting

Reviewer: It has been a common issue in the past that users are unaware that formatting will not occur if IntelliSense is disabled (https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-cpptools/issues/7083, https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-cpptools/issues/7339) . Maybe make a small note of it here with an asterisk (*)?

Reviewer 2: I vote that we don't add a note for that case since we don't want to inadvertently suggest that disabling IntelliSense is a good idea.

Author: I think it would be better to approach it from the opposite side and highlight the positives of having IntelliSense -  add a question to our FAQ, like "My code formatting is not working. How can I fix it? " and then state they should double check that IntelliSense is enabled, which is required for code formatting.

Reviewer 2: I would also vote not to have that in the FAQ

> The C/C++ extension for Visual Studio Code supports source code formatting using [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html), which is included with the extension.

Author: Added new sections and described how default works, and how they can switch to vc_format.

---
Order: 9
Area: cpp
TOCTitle: Editing and Navigating
ContentId: 61D63E54-67E2-4743-B5CB-C6E7F582982A

> PageTitle: Edit and navigate

Author: I see - I updated the Page title to have more context around C++ and VS Code. I figured it being under the C++ tab in docs would indicate so to users, but I now called it out explicitly just in case.

DateApproved: 1/16/2024
MetaDescription: How to edit and navigate C++ source files in Visual Studio Code.
---
# Editing and Navigating

This article provides an overview of code editing and navigating features specific to the C/C++ Extension. For more information about general editing and navigating in Visual Studio Code, see [Basic Editing](/docs/editor/codebasics.md) and [Code Navigation](/docs/editor/editingevolved.md).

> ## Editing Set Up

Author: I just made this a general header to introduce the editing section, then added a description and made adding a header its own section. This should make it more clear.

To specify additional include directories, select an #include that has no reference. Next, select the light bulb that appears and choose `Edit "includePath" setting`, which opens the C/C++ Extension's Configurations interface. Under the Include Path section, you can specify the paths for any additional include directories.

![Process of adding a new header to the include path](images\intellisense\AddingIncludePathToConfig.gif)

### List members

When you type a member access symbol (`.` or `->`) the editor displays a list of members. As you type more letters, the list is filtered in real time:

![List members](images/cpp/list-members-cpp.png)

### Code formatting

The C/C++ extension for Visual Studio Code supports source code formatting using [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) and [vc_format](). Both of these formatting options are included in the extension, with clang-format being the default.

> You can format an entire file with **Format Document** (`kb(editor.action.formatDocument)`) or just the current selection with **Format Selection** (`kb(editor.action.formatSelection)`) in right-click context menu. You can also configure autoformatting with the following [settings](/docs/getstarted/settings.md):

Reviewer 3: I think auto-formatting is better. I haven't seen `autoformatting` used.

* `editor.formatOnSave` - to format when you save your file.
* `editor.formatOnType` - to format as you type (triggered on the `kbstyle(;)` character).

### Clang-format

> By default, the clang-format style is set to `file`. This means, if a `.clang-format` file is found in your workspace, the settings specified in the file are used as the formatting reference. Otherwise, formatting is based on the default style specified in the `C_Cpp.clang_format_fallbackStyle` [setting](/docs/getstarted/settings.md).

Reviewer 3: These commas are not necessary and make it harder to read.

![Process of adding a new header to the include path](images\intellisense\AddingIncludePathToConfig.gif)

### List members

When you type a member access symbol (`.` or `->`), the editor displays a list of members. As you type more letters, the list is filtered in real time:

![List members](images/cpp/list-members-cpp.png)

### Code formatting

The C/C++ extension for Visual Studio Code supports source code formatting using [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) and vc_format. Both of these formatting options are included in the extension, with clang-format being the default.

You can format an entire file with **Format Document** (`kb(editor.action.formatDocument)`) or just the current selection with **Format Selection** (`kb(editor.action.formatSelection)`) in right-click context menu. You can also trigger formatting based on user gestures such as typing, saving, and pasting with the following [settings](/docs/getstarted/settings.md):

* `editor.formatOnSave` - to format when you save your file.
* `editor.formatOnType` - to format as you type (triggered on the `kbstyle(;)` character).

> To learn more about formatting, see [Formatting](/docs/editor/codebasics#_formatting).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To learn more about formatting, see [Formatting](/docs/editor/codebasics.md#formatting).
```

![Process of adding a new header to the include path](images\intellisense\AddingIncludePathToConfig.gif)

### List members

When you type a member access symbol (`.` or `->`) the editor displays a list of members. As you type more letters, the list is filtered in real time:

![List members](images/cpp/list-members-cpp.png)

### Code formatting

> The C/C++ extension for Visual Studio Code supports source code formatting using [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) and [vc_format](). Both of these formatting options are included in the extension, with clang-format being the default.

Reviewer 3: Is this supposed to be a link? It's blank.

To use a different version of clang-format than the one that ships with the extension, change the `C_Cpp.clang_format_path` [setting](/docs/getstarted/settings.md) to the path where the clang-format binary is installed.

For example, on the Windows platform, use:

```json
  "C_Cpp.clang_format_path": "C:\\Program Files (x86)\\LLVM\\bin\\clang-format.exe"
```

### Enhanced semantic colorization

When IntelliSense is enabled, the Visual Studio Code C/C++ extension supports semantic colorization. For more information about setting colors for classes, functions, variables, etc., see [Enhanced colorization](/docs/cpp/colorization-cpp.md). For more information on configuring IntelliSense, see [IntelliSense configuration](/docs/cpp/configure-intellisense.md).

### Quick Info

You can hover over a symbol to see an inline view of its definition:

> ![Quick info](images/mingw/quickinfo.png)

Reviewer: Perhaps we can add information about documentation comments under this section since they show up in the tooltip?

For example, Doxygen Generation and formatting in the tooltip. An example of the usage of doxygen tags can be found here: 

```
/// @brief Calculates area of triangle
/// @tparam T is template param
/// @param base is horizontal length
/// @param height is vertical length
/// @return Area of triangle
/// @exception This is an exception comment
/// @deprecated This is deprecated comment
/// @note this is note
/// @attention this is attention
/// @pre this is pre comment
template<typename T>
T TriangleArea(T base, T height)
{
    double result;
    result = base * height * 0.5;
    return (T)result;
}
```

You could also mention the following settings: 

![image](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs/assets/111317156/efe58deb-56b0-45fc-8564-4f2d435c6fc8)

To use a different version of clang-format than the one that ships with the extension, change the `C_Cpp.clang_format_path` [setting](/docs/getstarted/settings.md) to the path where the clang-format binary is installed.

For example, on the Windows platform, use:

```json
  "C_Cpp.clang_format_path": "C:\\Program Files (x86)\\LLVM\\bin\\clang-format.exe"
```

#### vc_format

> By default, if an `.editorconfig` file with relevant settings is identified near the code being formatted, the Visual C++ formatting engine is used instead of clang-format. Otherwise, navigate to the `C_Cpp.formatting` [setting](/docs/getstarted/settings.md) and set it to `vc_format` to use the Visual C++ formatting engine always.

Reviewer 3: use->always use (remove the `always` at the end).

### Quick Info

You can hover over a symbol to see an inline view of its definition:

![Quick info](images/mingw/quickinfo.png)

### Doxygen comments

Doxygen is a tool that generates documentation from source code. When you annotate code with comments, Doxygen will then generate documentation for these functions. For doxygen comments, type `/**` and press `Enter` to generate a doxygen comment block. Supported doxygen tags include: `@brief`,`@tparam`, `@param`, `@return`, `@exception`, `@deprecated`, `@note`, `@attention`, and `@pre`.

### Markdown comments

The C++ Extension by default supports showing a subset of markdown in your editor. This subset supports all markdown comments except the symbols "_" and "*". Toggle the new **Markdown in Comments** setting to enable all markdown, keep this subset of markdown, or disable markdown support.

## Navigating source code

The source code navigation features provided are powerful tools for understanding for your codebase. These let you quickly search for symbols in your code, navigate to their definitions, and find references to them.

> Navigation is powered by a set of tags stored in a local database of symbol information. Whenever a folder containing C++ source code files is opened, the  C/C++ extension creates a database of the symbols defined in those files. This database is updated whenever a file is saved, and shared between all workspaces that use the same source code.

Reviewer 3: The database is updated after a file is changed -- no save is required. If the document is closed without saving, the database is updated to it's saved state.

Author: Updated this section to specify that they don't need to save.

### Search for symbols

You can search for symbols in the current file or workspace to navigate your code more quickly.

> To search for a symbol in the current file, press `kb(workbench.action.gotoSymbol)`, then enter the name of the symbol you're looking for. A list of potential matches appears; which is filtered as you type. Choose from the list of matches to navigate to its location.

Reviewer 3: This `;` should be `,` in order to be grammatically correct. The clause after the semicolon needs to be "independent", but it's not after the changed text.

![Searching the current file](images/cpp/filesearch.png)

To search for a symbol in the current workspace, press `kb(workbench.action.showAllSymbols)`, then enter the name of the symbol. A list of potential matches will appear. If the match you choose is located in a file that's not already open, the file will be opened before navigating to the match's location.

![Searching in your workspace](images/cpp/workspacesearch.png)

You can also search for symbols by accessing these commands through the **Command Palette**(`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`). Use **Quick Open** (`kb(workbench.action.quickOpen)`) then enter the '@' command to search the current file, or the '#' command to search the current workspace. `kb(workbench.action.gotoSymbol)` and `kb(workbench.action.showAllSymbols)` are shortcuts for the '@' and '#' commands.

### Call hierarchy

A Call Hierarchy view shows all calls to or from a function. It lets you understand the complex calling relationships between the functions in your source code.

> To view the call hierarchy, select a function, right-click to display the context menu, and choose **Show Call Hierarchy**. You can also use the keyboard shortcut (`Shift+Alt+H` on windows), or invoke the **Command Palette** (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and run the command **Calls: Show Call Hierarchy**. This populates the call tree in the side bar with all of the functions called by your selected function.

Reviewer 3: windows->Windows

> To view the call hierarchy, select a function, right-click to display the context menu, and choose **Show Call Hierarchy**. You can also use the keyboard shortcut (`Shift+Alt+H` on windows), or invoke the **Command Palette** (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and run the command **Calls: Show Call Hierarchy**. This populates the call tree in the side bar with all of the functions called by your selected function.

Author: The keyboard command Shift+Alt+H does not map to any named commands in the [VS Code keybindings](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/keybindings), so we can't call (kb(`editor.showCallHierarchy`))

> To view the call hierarchy, select a function, right-click to display the context menu, and choose **Show Call Hierarchy**. You can also use the keyboard shortcut (`Shift+Alt+H` on windows), or invoke the **Command Palette** (`kb(workbench.action.showCommands)`) and run the command **Calls: Show Call Hierarchy**. This populates the call tree in the side bar with all of the functions called by your selected function.

Reviewer 4: Not all default keybindings are listed here. If you check in VS Code and get default keyboard shortcuts, Shift+Alt+H is mapped to `editor.showCallHierarchy`.

To open a *peek window*, navigate to the context menu by right-clicking and selecting **Peek**. There, you can choose to peek at a symbol's definition, declaration, type definition, or references.

![Peek definition](images/cpp/peekdefn.png)

With the peek window open, you browse the list of results shown to find the one you're interested in. If you want to navigate to the location of one of these results, just select result or double-click in the source code displayed on the left-hand side of the peek window.

### Go to definition

Use the **Go to Definition** feature to quickly navigate to where a symbol is defined in your source code. Select a symbol in your source code and then press `kb(editor.action.revealDefinition)`, or right-click and choose **Go to Definition** from the context menu. When there's only one definition of the symbol, you'll navigate directly to its location, otherwise the competing definitions are displayed in a peek window as described in the previous section.

If no definitions can be found for the symbol you selected, the C/C++ Extension will automatically search for a declaration of the symbol.

### Go to declaration

> Use the **Go to Declaration** feature to navigate to the location a symbol is declared in your source code. This feature functions the same as **Go to Definition**, but for declarations. Select a symbol in your source code, right-click, and choose **Go to Declaration** from the context menu. This will navigate you to the location of the symbol's declaration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Use the **Go to Declaration** feature to navigate to the location where a symbol is declared in your source code. This feature functions the same as **Go to Definition**, but for declarations. Select a symbol in your source code, right-click, and choose **Go to Declaration** from the context menu. This navigates you to the location of the symbol's declaration.
```

### Go to references

Use the **Go to References** feature to understand how often and where a symbol is referenced in your source code. Select a symbol in your source code and press `kb(editor.action.goToReferences)` or right-click and choose **Go to References** from the context menu. If any references are found, they are displayed in a peek window.

### Go to type definition

Use the **Go to Type Definition** feature to jump to where a type is defined in your source code. Select a type in your source code and press `kb(editor.action.goToTypeDefinition)` or right-click and choose **Go to Type Definition** from the context menu.

## Next steps

Read on to find out about:

> * [Debugging](/docs/cpp/cpp-debug.md) - find out how to use the debugger with your project

Reviewer 3: Could you unify the style for the text in this list? Some bullet points start with a capital letter other don't and others end with a period and others don't. Maybe they should all be sentence styled?
